# Environmental variables

- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env APACHE_PORT=11000` on a clean instance, the domaincheck container should be started with that same port published. That makes sure that also the Apache container will use that port later on. Using a value here that is not a port will not allow the mastercontainer to start correctly. However `@INTERNAL` is also an allowed value which skips publishing the port on the host for internal usage inside a bridged network for example.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env APACHE_IP_BINDING=127.0.0.1` on a clean instance, the domaincheck container's apache port should only listen on localhost on the host. Using a value here that is not a number or dot will not allow the mastercontainer to start correctly.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env APACHE_ADDITIONAL_NETWORK=frontend_net` on a clean instance, the domaincheck and subsequently the apache containers should be connected to the specified `frontend_net` docker network, in addition to the default `nextcloud-aio` network. Specifying the network that doesn't already exist will not allow the mastercontainer to start correctly.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env TALK_PORT=3479` on a clean instance, the talk container should use this port later on. Using a value here that is not a port will not allow the mastercontainer to start correctly. Also it should stop if apache_port and talk_port are set to the same value.
- [ ] Make also sure that reverse proxies work by following https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one/blob/main/reverse-proxy.md#reverse-proxy-documentation and following [001-initial-setup.md](./001-initial-setup.md) and [002-new-instance.md](./002-new-instance.md)
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env SKIP_DOMAIN_VALIDATION=true` on a clean instance, it should skip the domain verification. So it should accept any domain that you type in then.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_DATADIR="/mnt/testdata"` it should map that location from `/mnt/testdata` to `/mnt/ncdata` inside the Nextcloud container. Not having adjusted the permissions correctly before starting the Nextcloud container the first time will not allow the Nextcloud container to start correctly. See https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one#how-to-change-the-default-location-of-nextclouds-datadir for allowed values.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_MOUNT="/mnt/"` it should map `/mnt/` to `/mnt/` inside the Nextcloud container. See https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one#how-to-allow-the-nextcloud-container-to-access-directories-on-the-host for allowed values.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_UPLOAD_LIMIT=11G` it should change Nextclouds upload limit to 11G. See https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one#how-to-adjust-the-upload-limit-for-nextcloud for allowed values.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_MEMORY_LIMIT=1024M` it should change Nextclouds PHP memory limit to 1024M. See https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one#how-to-adjust-the-php-memory-limit-for-nextcloud for allowed values.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_MAX_TIME=4000` it should change Nextclouds upload max time 4000s. See https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one#how-to-adjust-the-max-execution-time-for-nextcloud for allowed values.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env BORG_RETENTION_POLICY="--keep-within=1d --keep-weekly=1 --keep-monthly=1"` it should change borgs retention policy to the defined one. This can be checked when creating a backup and looking at the logs.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env FULLTEXTSEARCH_JAVA_OPTIONS="-Xms1024M -Xmx1024M"` it should change Elasticsearchs `ES_JAVA_OPTS` options to the defined one. This can be checked by checking the `ES_JAVA_OPTS` variable for the nextcloud-aio-fulltextsearch container.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env WATCHTOWER_DOCKER_SOCKET_PATH="$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/docker.sock"` it should map `$XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/docker.sock` to `/var/run/docker.sock` inside the watchtower container which allow to update the mastercontainer on docker rootless.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env AIO_DISABLE_BACKUP_SECTION=true` it should hide the backup section that gets shown after AIO is set up (everything of [020-backup-and-restore](./020-backup-and-restore.md)) and simply show that the backup section is disabled.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_TRUSTED_CACERTS_DIR=/path/to/my/cacerts`, the resulting nextcloud container should trust all the Certification Authorities, whose certificates are included in the directory `/path/to/my/cacerts` on the host.
See https://github.com/nextcloud/all-in-one#how-to-trust-user-defined-certification-authorities-ca
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env COLLABORA_SECCOMP_DISABLED=true`, the resulting collabora container should have `--o:security.seccomp=false` applied to it.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_STARTUP_APPS=deck`, the resulting Nextcloud should have only installed the deck app and not the other apps that get installed by default. Default are `deck twofactor_totp tasks calendar contacts notes`.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_ADDITIONAL_APKS=zip`, the resulting Nextcloud container should have the zip package installed and not imagemagick.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_ADDITIONAL_PHP_EXTENSIONS=inotify`, the resulting Nextcloud container should have the inotify extension installed and not the imagick extension.
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_ENABLE_DRI_DEVICE=true`, the resulting Nextcloud container should have the /dev/dri device mounted into the container. (Only works if a `/dev/dri` device is present on the host)
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_ENABLE_NVIDIA_GPU=true`, the resulting Nextcloud container should have the nvidia gpu device mounted into the container. (Only works if a Nvidia GPU and runtime is installed on the host)
- [ ] When starting the mastercontainer with `--env NEXTCLOUD_KEEP_DISABLED_APPS=true` it should keep apps in Nextcloud that are disabled in the AIO interface. For example if Collabora is disabled in the AIO interface and you install the richdocuments app in Nextcloud, a restart should not uninstall the richdocuments app in Nextcloud anymore.

You can now continue with [070-timezone-change.md](./070-timezone-change.md)
